>> Brian Holt: So we're gonna get
into setting up our McP client.
So two different things today that I'm
gonna ask you to really burn into your
brain of what are separate.
There is an MCP client,
something that uses MCP servers and
then there are MCP servers.
So Claude Desktop, Tome,
you can see here, there's a ton of them.
VS code, anything that's consuming
an MCP server would be a client, right?
I'm gonna be using mostly Claude desktop,
which is just like the desktop
way of interacting with it.
The reason why I'm not using the website
is because we're gonna be using MCP
servers locally,
which you can't do on the website.
So in order to use Claude Desktop you do
have to have an account with them and
they have a pretty generous free tier.
I would imagine you should be able to
get through this course without paying
for anything.
But I just kinda have a rule that I
always want people to be able to use open
source stuff and stuff for free.
So I did put a link here for Tome,
which I have up here as well.
So as you can see, it's obviously
very inspired by Claude desktop,
very similar idea.
The big difference is here,
if we look at this is you can see I'm
actually running everything here off
of Ollama, which is like a tool for
hosting these models locally.
You can see actually I have it
running up here in my taskbar.
But the other thing that's cool about
Tome is that it also can run basically
like a Claude desktop environment for
ChatGPT which doesn't otherwise
exist from OpenAI directly or
from Gemini for that matter.
So feel free to use Tome.
Most of the stuff here will work out
of the box for either one of them.
There's some stuff that does not
work on Tome, but tools do work,
which is the most important
part of this course.
I will show you how to set it up probably
once the nice thing about this one, so
you can see these are all the models
I have installed on Ollama.
And again,
installing stuff on Ollama is very simple.
It's like brew install Ollama,
ollama.com, ignore all their turbo stuff.
That's their hosted stuff which
we're not talking about today.
Yeah, it's just ollama run or
ollama pull or
something like that to install new models.
It's really simple.
Yeah, and then installing this.
Yeah, download here.
All you have to do is here is
click Download for Mac OS and
you can download Ollama.
Ollama, all it does is manage
all of your models for you and
then you can just say ollama --help.
And so ollama list.
You can see these are all the models
that I have installed right now.
I have some fairly small models installed.
I have 24 gigs of RAM on this laptop,
which is not bad for
running good sized models.
So you do need to be extremely
cognizant of how much RAM you have on
your computer and specifically GPU VRAM,
cuz that'll make a huge difference on what
models you can run and
how fast they're going to run, right?
If you try and
run a huge model on a tiny GPU,
it's either just not gonna work straight
up or it's gonna take a decade to run.
So just be very cautious of that.
I have these linked somewhere else
as well of some good models for
you to run on smaller computers.
I was mostly using where I
could this Qwen 3.8 billion and
where I couldn't the quin 3.6 billion.
We'll talk about what that means
here just in a little bit.
But once you have those installed,
you can.
You can see here that Tome
is very smart enough to
pull this directly out
of Ollama what I have.
Tome only works with tools and
does not support prompts or resources.
We are gonna talk about both prompts and
resources today and
Tome does not support them.
I'm gonna say it's not really that big
of a deal because prompts and resources,
I'll show you and we'll do them, but
I don't think they're that impactful yet.
It's tools,
right now that are just like everything.
So if you're going forward with Tome,
I think that's totally fine.
Just be aware that once
you get to that point,
you will not be able to use prompts or
resources.
Be sure you're using Ollama.
That's what everything integrates with.
Yeah, I was gonna say Ollama
last week introduced Turbo,
which is basically the ability to run
these models not locally on your computer,
which is the entire point of Ollama.
But you can run them in the Claude,
on Ollama's Claude.
If that's what you wanna do,
by all means, I didn't try it.
It's a paid service, obviously, right?
For that kind of paid hosted model,
I really like open router,
which is another way of doing
kind of the same thing.
Yeah.
Keep in mind that most of us are on,
I'm on 24 gigs right here, and that's a
pretty beefy laptop in terms of just RAM,
and Apple computers have joint VRAM and
RAM together.
At least the Apple Silicon ones do.
But most laptops are gonna really struggle
running some of these beefy models.
If you're on a laptop you either
probably just wanna use Claude,
it's gonna be the fastest and
easiest way to take this course.
Or if you are gonna run Ollama,
I'm gonna suggest Qwen 3.8 billion
if your computer can handle it okay.
And if not, then Qwen 3.6 billion.
Just be prepare for some pretty
wacky answers from the 0.6 billion.
Most importantly, you do need to choose
a model that handles tools calling.
So you can't just choose any model.
Some models don't support it and
others do.
Make sure that you are choosing one.
In fact, I left you the link here.
These ones, if it's on this list,
it does support tools calling.
Yeah.
>> Male Student: You said tool calling,
is that specific the MCP tool calling?
Are there other types or
is it pretty much all like there?
I assume these models are trained to
know how to call tools around MCP.
>> Brian Holt: Yeah,
I do think that it's MCP specific.
I don't know of another protocol
that people are adopting.
MCP is kind of one at this point, I think.
So by the time that people watch
this course recorded online,
I guarantee you these are gonna be
not the best models for them to run.
So you might have to do just a tiny bit
of research cuz they just come out at
a breakneck pace.
But it's really not that important.
Some of you might be wondering about these
numbers cuz they feel kind of arbitrary.
The 1.5 billion, 0.6 billion,
325 million, blah blah blah.
Do you remember,
some of you I'm probably dating myself,
back in when there was Pentium IVs out and
there was Athlon XPS.
And the Athlons had way slower clock
speeds in terms of megahertz, but
were just as fast as the Intels.
But they had to name their models very
similar to the Intel ones cuz everyone was
judging everything based
on Intel's clock speeds.
So they say, this is 3 GHz and
this is the 3000 series Athlon.
This is the same thing here, right?
These billions of parameters just roughly
translate to how smart the model is,
but it really doesn't, right?
So please don't say that this DeepSeek
one is dumber than this Phi one,
because you're comparing apples and
cars, right?
It just doesn't make any sense to
compare these two things together.
But you can use them to say
I have this Qwen 3 here and
you can see this has many different ones.
You can say that roughly this Qwen 0.6
billion, I'm not gonna say it's three
times less capable than this 1.7 billion,
but you can say this one's gonna be much
more capable because they are in
the same series, right, the same model.
Does that make sense?
You can very roughly translate to
that to how smart the model is,
just with a huge caveat that it
might not match up one to one there.
So generally when I'm at home I have
a gaming computer because I degenerate
that plays computer games and
I run Ollama on my gaming
computer when I'm not playing
it cuz it has a 4090 which has.
Is that 24 gigs of RAM as well?
I don't remember how much it has,
enough is the answer to your question.
And it can run some of
the bigger models and
that's all that computer does
when I'm not playing games on it.
So if you have a gaming computer,
that is a very good use case for it.
It also uses a lot of electricity.
I'm just throwing that out there, beware.
I used to have my gaming computer
processing all of my home assistant events
from my house and
that did burn quite a bit of power.
So I stopped doing that.
I asked the creators of Tome if it was
okay if I talk about their stuff on this.
They were very happy about that.
Their call to action for
you is join them on Discord if you
think it's a cool piece of technology.
And then yeah,
I did talk about Open Router here.
Yeah, Open Router.
Just a slight shout out for that is, if
you wanna try a bunch of models in a row,
I wanna see if this works well with this
model, and then I wanna try this model,
and then this model, and this model.
Open Router makes it really easy to
just swap models really, really quickly.
That's why I like it.
There's lots of other clients as well.
Cursor, Windsurf, VS Code, Claude,
Code are kinda coding specific ones.
We're gonna be using Claude code today cuz
I've tried all of them at this point and
it's one that fit my brain the best,
and also gave me really good results.
I think this is where MCP is really gonna
shine the most, cuz we're gonna start
introducing things like database
MCP servers and GitHub MCP servers.
A bunch of really cool stuff.
But you should definitely try these.
In fact, if you haven't tried all
of these, at least Cursor, VS Code,
Agent mode, Claude code.
If you haven't tried all these, that's
your homework, just go try all of these.
Go build something just inane and
dumb using one of these and
see which one you like.